Before we proceed, thank you for giving me this opportunity, at least, to have an interview with you. Thank you so much for coming.

This one is one of a kind. I've never had one like this.

I've been wondering where people do these titles.

Did you hear about people being part of interviews before? Have you heard of something like this from other people?

Yes, I've heard of it, but I've never attended one.

Number two, right now, I'm also a student.

What kind of student are you? I'm taking a master's degree in computer science. Oh, in computer science. Yes.

Which is my coursework. So I think whatever I learn from here will also help me in my thesis.

Well, I guess you're doing computer science, so I'm doing political science. Yes, and international relations. Maybe you do much more, I guess, algorithm. Sure, sure. Right?

Yes. And you interact with what kind of programs? What kind of programming language do you use?

Right now, it depends. There are so many programming languages. It depends on the area you want to dwell in. You see, computer science is quite broad.

And you could specialize in it. Apart from being a programmer, you can still do other things. But nevertheless, official basic.net.

Yes.

Okay, that's great to hear that you're interested in, you know, education and all that. So, okay, I do have a couple of questions before we start, like, the actual conversation. Some basic demographic information questions. So, first question is, what gender do you identify as? Male or female?

Male. Male. What is your age?

I'm 38 years old. Thirty-eight? Yes. Okay. And what about your ethnicity?

Sorry? Your ethnicity. So, I guess, like, Kikuyu or? Ethnicity.

Luya. Luya. Luya. It's L-U-H-Y-A, right? Yes. I've been hearing this a lot.

I've heard it right. Where were you born?

Kakamega Town. Kakamega. Kakamega.

M-E-G-A. Kakamega Town. Yes. How far away is it from Nairobi? 200 kilometers. 400 kilometers. Yes. Ah, okay. And you live in Nairobi now? Yes. Okay.

And what brought you to Nairobi, or when did you come to Nairobi?

I came to Nairobi in 2005. 2005. Oh, okay. For education. For education. Yes. Yes. Okay. Is Kakamega a small town or a big town?

It's a big town. But not as big as Nairobi. Nairobi is such a big city. Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisume are big cities. Kakamega is a serious town. Ah. I see. Yes. Ah, okay. Okay. What is, what do you think is like the biggest difference between Nairobi and Kakamega? The biggest difference? One is Nairobi has very good health facilities, good employment opportunities, good education facilities, good housing facilities. Yes. Especially when you're walking around.

Yeah. Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay. So, yeah. I used to be, or you're in, you're getting your masters, right? Yes. You're getting your masters. Yes. What about your undergraduate? What did you do for your undergraduate? Information technologies. Ah, okay. Yes.

Information technology. Okay. What about, how would you describe your university? political view how would you like say are you interested in politics are you not do you support a particular political party or you're not that

interested he ordered on water can we get up yeah

I support some political parties interested in politics you're interested in

What would be the need of all this education if we can't change politics and reform a few things?

Definitely someday I get a chance to change politics.

Can I ask, do you support the current government or opposition?

I voted for the opposition.

How would you describe the difference between the opposition and the current government? What's the biggest difference? Right now, the biggest difference is actually from what we have seen. It's the high levels of ethnicity.

Ethnicity? A high level of ethnicity? That means how they are hiring people up there. Yes, it is. It's on ethnic lines. Right now? Right now, of course.

That is the current regime. It's not inclusive. Oh, okay.

Is that why you voted for the opposition? Because you want to change or rise up? Sorry? Come again. Why did you vote for the other party? Oh, why I voted for the opposition. It's because of their manifesto.

Actually, the ideas that they were trying to send to us, the voters. And also the face. You see, the face of their campaign team. It reflected the face of the entire country. So you would imagine if these guys get into that position, they may be embracing inclusivity.

Okay, so thanks for sharing that. So I study something called foreign aid. Have you heard of foreign aid before?

Yes, I've heard of it.

What do you think foreign aid is? Yes.

Foreign aid is this support that organizations,

goodwill organizations actually from outside our country come in to help some small organizations, some small communities, some special groups of people to embody. Yes, so it is that aid that we get to help us grow.

What are your thoughts about foreign aid? What comes to mind when you first think about foreign aid?

From my layman's point of view, when he hear foreign aid, he just see something like money being pumped in.

And

some projects are started for the general good.

Yes, so the

mostly the less disadvantaged group in the country. Yes. Have you seen foreign aid projects before here in Kenya?

Foreign aid? Have you seen anything that's going on or? I think yes. Yes. Yes. There are some roads that have been built from outside the country, hospitals, schools. How did you know these were foreign aid projects?

One, when a foreign aid project is going on somewhere, usually there's an advertisement, there's a billboard indicating. Oh, billboard. Yeah, billboards indicating what is going on. There's also some, we also read news from social media, papers about certain organizations in the country. Okay. So, I guess I'm really interested in people's, I guess, when they first noticed foreign aid or

saw that someone was calling, they probably noticed someone was calling, so it's actually good to know about it.

People noticed someone putting their card together or somebody else was doing a lot ofражation.